# What Is AWS?

Cloud computing is an on-demand delivery of IT resources over the internet with primarily pay-as-you-go pricing. With cloud computing, companies do not have to manage and maintain their own hardware and data centers. Instead, companies like AWS own and maintain data centers and provide virtual data center technologies and services to companies and users over the internet.

## Six advantages of cloud computing

- Pay as you go
Instead of investing in data centers and hardware before you know how you are going to use them, you pay only when you use computing resources, and pay only for how much you use.

- Benifit from massive economic of scale
By using cloud computing, you can achieve a lower cost than you can get on your own. Because usage from hundreds of thousands of customers is aggregated in the cloud, AWS can achieve higher economies of scale, which translates into lower pay as-you-go prices.

- Stop guessing capacity
Eliminate guessing on your infrastructure capacity needs. When you make a capacity decision prior to deploying an application, you often end up either sitting on expensive idle resources or dealing with limited capacity. With cloud computing, these problems go away. You can access as much or as little capacity as you need, and scale up and down as required with only a few minutes notice.

- Increase speed and agility
IT resources are only a click away, which means that you reduce the time to make resources available to your developers from weeks to minutes. This results in a dramatic increase in agility for the organization, since the cost and time it takes to experiment and develop is significantly lower.

- Realize cost saving
Companies can focus on projects that differentiate their business instead of maintaining data centers. Cloud computing lets you focus on your customers, rather than on the heavy lifting of racking, stacking, and powering physical infrastructure. This is often referred to as undifferentiated heavy lifting.

- Go global in minutes
Applications can be deployed in multiple Regions around the world with a few clicks. This means that you can provide lower latency and a better experience for your customers at a minimal cost.
