# AWS Global Infrastructure
Infrastructure, like data centers and networking connectivity, still exists as the foundation of every cloud application. In AWS, this physical infrastructure makes up the AWS Global Infrastructure, in the form of Regions and Availability Zones.

## Regions
Regions are geographic locations worldwide where AWS hosts its data centers. AWS Regions are named after the location where they reside. For example, in the United States, the Region in Northern Virginia is called the Northern Virginia Region, and the Region in Oregon is called the Oregon Region. AWS has Regions in Asia Pacific, Canada, Europe, the Middle East, and South America, and we continue to expand to meet our customers' needs.

Each AWS Region is associated with a geographical name and a Region code.

### Here are examples of Region codes:
- *us-east-1:* The first Region created in the eastern US area. The geographical name for this Region is N. Virginia.
- *ap-northeast-1:* The first Region created in the northeast Asia Pacific area. The geographical name for this Region is Tokyo.

AWS Regions are independent from one another. Data is not replicated from one Region to another, without explicit customer consent and authorization.

## Choose the Right AWS Region
When you decide which AWS Region to host your applications and workloads, consider four main aspects – latency, price, service availability, and compliance.

- latency
If your application is sensitive to latency (the delay between a request for data and the response), choose a Region that is close to your user base. This helps prevent long wait times for your customers. Synchronous applications such as gaming, telephony, WebSockets, and Internet of Things (IoT) are significantly affected by high latency. Asynchronous workloads, such as ecommerce applications, can also suffer from user connectivity delays.

- pricing
Due to the local economy and the physical nature of operating data centers, prices vary from one Region to another. Internet connectivity, imported equipment costs, customs, real estate, and other factors impact a Region's pricing. Instead of charging a flat rate worldwide, AWS charges based on the financial factors specific to each Region.

- Service availability
Some services might not be available in some Regions. The AWS documentation provides a table that shows the services available in each Region.

- Data compliance
Enterprise companies often must comply with regulations that require customer data to be stored in a specific geographic territory. If applicable, choose a Region that meets your compliance requirements.

## Availability Zones
Inside every Region is a cluster of Availability Zones (AZs). An AZ consists of one or more data centers with redundant power, networking, and connectivity. These data centers operate in discrete facilities in undisclosed locations. They are connected using redundant high-speed and low-latency links.

AZs also have a code name. Since they are located inside Regions, they can be addressed by appending a letter to the end of the Region code name. For example:

- *us-east-1a:* An AZ in us-east-1 (N. Virginia Region)
- *sa-east-1b:* An AZ in sa-east-1 (São Paulo Region)

Therefore, if you see that a resource exists in us-east-1c, you can infer that the resource is located in AZ c of the us-east-1 Region.

## Scope AWS services
Depending on the AWS service you use, your resources are either deployed at the AZ, Region, or Global level. Each service is different, so you must understand how the scope of a service might affect your application architecture.

When you operate a Region-scoped service, you only need to select the Region you want to use. If you are not asked to specify an individual AZ to deploy the service in, this is an indicator that the service operates on a Region-scope level. For Region-scoped services, AWS automatically performs actions to increase data durability and availability.

On the other hand, some services ask you to specify an AZ. With these services, you are often responsible for increasing the data durability and high availability of these resources.

## Maintain resiliency
To keep your application available, you must maintain high availability and resiliency. A well-known best practice for cloud architecture is to use Region-scoped, managed services. These services come with availability and resiliency built in. When that is not possible, make sure your workload is replicated across multiple AZs. At a minimum, you should use two AZs. That way, if an AZ fails, your application will have infrastructure up and running in a second AZ to take over the traffic.
