# Interacting with AWS

Every action you make in AWS is an API call that is authenticated and authorized. In AWS, you can make API calls to services and resources through the AWS Management Console, AWS Command Line Interface (AWS CLI), or AWS software development kits (SDKs).

## The AWS Management Console

One way to manage cloud resources is through the web-based console, where you log in and choose the desired service. This can be the easiest way to create and manage resources when you first begin working with the cloud. Below is a screenshot that shows the landing page when you first log in to the AWS Management Console.
The services are placed in categories, such as Compute, Storage, Database, and Analytics

On the upper-right corner is the Region selector. If you choose it and change the Region, you will make requests to the services in the chosen Region. The URL changes, too. Changing the Region setting directs your browser to make requests to a different AWS Region, represented by a different subdomain.

## The AWS Command Line Interface (AWS CLI)

Consider the scenario where you run tens of servers on AWS for your application’s front end. You want to run a report to collect data from all the servers. You need to do this programmatically every day because the server details might change. Instead of manually logging in to the AWS Management Console and then copying and pasting information, you can schedule an AWS CLI script with an API call to pull this data for you.

The AWS CLI is a unified tool that you can use to manage AWS services. You can download and configure one tool that you can use to control multiple AWS services from the command line and automate them with scripts. The AWS CLI is open-source, and installers are available for Windows, Linux, and macOS.

For example, if you run the following API call against a service using AWS CLI:

*aws ec2 describe-instances*

you will get the following response:

```json
{
    "Reservations": [
{
    "Groups": [],
    "Instances": [
{
    "AmiLaunchIndex": 0,
```

## AWS SDKs
API calls to AWS can also be performed by running code with programming languages. You can do this by using AWS software development kits (SDKs). SDKs are open source and maintained by AWS for the most popular programming languages, such as C++, Go, Java, JavaScript, .NET, Node.js, PHP, Python, and Ruby.

Developers commonly use AWS SDKs to integrate their application source code with AWS services. For example, consider an application with a front end that runs in Python. Every time the application receives a cat photo, it uploads the file to a storage service. This action can be achieved in the source code by using the AWS SDK for Python. Here is an example of code you can implement to work with AWS resources using the Python AWS SDK.

```python
import boto3
ec2 = boto3.client('ec2')
response = ec2.describe_instances()
print(response)
```
