# Role-Based Access in AWS
Throughout these last few lessons, you have learned about some IAM best practices. This section summarizes some of the most important IAM best practices  that you must be familiar with before building solutions in AWS.

- Lock down the AWS root user
The root user is an all-powerful and all-knowing identity in your AWS account. If a malicious user were to gain control of root-user credentials, they would be able to access every resource in your account, including personal and billing information. To lock down the root user, you can do the following:

    - Don’t share the credentials associated with the root user
    - Consider deleting the root user access keys
    - Enable MFA on the root account

- Follow the principal of least privilege
Least privilege is a standard security principle that advises you to grant only the necessary permissions to do a particular job and nothing more. To implement least privilege for access control, start with the minimum set of permissions in an IAM policy and then grant additional permissions as necessary for a user, group, or role.

- Use IAM appropriatly
IAM is used to secure access to your AWS account and resources. It simply provides a way to create and manage users, groups, and roles to access resources in a single AWS account. IAM is not used for website authentication and authorization, such as providing users of a website with sign-in and sign-up functionality. IAM also does not support security controls for protecting operating systems and networks.

- Use IAM Role when possible
Maintaining roles is more efficient than maintaining users. When you assume a role, IAM dynamically provides temporary credentials that expire after a defined period of time, between 15 minutes and 36 hours. Users, on the other hand, have long-term credentials in the form of user name and password combinations or a set of access keys.

User access keys only expire when you or the account admin rotates the keys. User login credentials expire if you applied a password policy to your account that forces users to rotate their passwords.

- Consider using an identity provider
If you decide to make your cat photo application into a business and begin to have more than a handful of people working on it, consider managing employee identity information through an identity provider (IdP). Using an IdP, whether it's an AWS service such as AWS Single Sign-On or a third-party identity provider, provides a single source of truth for all identities in your organization.

You no longer have to create separate IAM users in AWS. You can instead use IAM roles to provide permissions to identities that are federated from your IdP. For example, you have an employee, Martha, who has access to multiple AWS accounts. Instead of creating and managing multiple IAM users named Martha in each of those AWS accounts, you could manage Martha in your company’s IdP. If Martha moves in the company or leaves the company, Martha can be updated in the IdP, rather than in every AWS account in the company.

- Consider AWS Single sign on
If you have an organization that spans many employees and multiple AWS accounts, you might want your employees to sign in with a single credential.

AWS SSO is an IdP that lets your users sign in to a user portal with a single set of credentials. It then provides users access to their assigned accounts and applications in a central location.

Similar to IAM. AWS SSO offers a directory where you can create users, organize them in groups, set permissions across the groups, and grant access to AWS resources. However, AWS SSO has some advantages over IAM. For example, if you’re using a third-party IdP, you can sync your users and groups to AWS SSO. This removes the burden of having to re-create users that already exist elsewhere, and it enables you to manage the users from your IdP. More importantly, AWS SSO separates the duties between your IdP and AWS, ensuring that your cloud access management is not inside or dependent on your IdP.
